README.md, before:

# Mitra

A tool to generate binary polyglots
(files that are valid with several file formats).

Loosely named after [Μιθραδάτης](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mithridates_VI_of_Pontus),
a famous polyglot.
Pronounced `mɪtrə`.

[What's new](NEWS.md).

## How to use

`mitra.py file1.png file2.dcm` gives you a working PNG/DICOM polyglot.

Check Corkami [mini](https://github.com/corkami/pocs/tree/master/mini)
or [tiny](https://github.com/corkami/pocs/tree/master/tiny) PoCs for input files.
and the formats [repository](https://github.com/corkami/formats/tree/WIP) for some extra technical info.


# Features

It tries different layouts:
Stacks (appended data), Cavities (blank space), Parasites (comments), Zippers (mutual comments).

It returns the offsets where the payloads 'switch sizes' for multi-ciphertexts.

Ex: `Z(80-162-286)-DICOM^TIFF.be3b767b.dcm.tif` is a DICOM/TIFF zipper
where the payloads switch side at offsets `0x80`, `0x162` and `0x286`.

The `-s` option extracts the 2 payloads separately, mixed with pseudo-random bytes
(it doesn't fix checksums afterwards).

Mitra doesn't generate crypto-polyglots or any polyglots with overlapping bytes,
but it can definitely help to craft them.


# Goals


## Exploration

The goal of this project was to explore polyglots layouts,
formats abuses, and understand which format features enables which kind of abuse.

For example, in a chunk-based format, just find where to `cut` the file,
then `wrap` foreign data in a new chunk and insert the chunk.
So you just need to teach Mitra how to `identify` the type,
where to `cut`, and how to `wrap`.


## Demonstration

You can prevent a software launch if you find a security risk,
but a bad format design is not considered a risk in itself:
it's just the parser's fault, not the designer's !

So if you review a bad file format,
then maybe with Mitra you can quickly generate polyglots with many other formats
and demonstrate the risks.


# Status

```
                          Delayed               Magic at offset zero,                 No appended
      Any offset  Cavities start               tolerated appended data                    data    Footer

        Z 7 A R   P I D T   P M   A B B C C E E F F G G I I I I J J N O P L P P R R T   B J P P W   I X
        i Z r A   D S C A   S P   R M Z A P B L L l I Z C C D L P P E G S N E N I T I   P a C C A   D Z
        p   j R   F O M R     4     P 2 B I M F V a F   C O 3 D 2 G S G D K   G F F F   G v A A S   3
                                          O L     c         v A                 F   F     a P P M   v
                                                            2                                 N     1

Zip     . X X X   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
7Z      X . X X   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
Arj     X X . X   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
RAR     X X X .   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40

PDF     X X X X   . X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
ISO     X X X X   X . X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
DCM     X X X X   X X .     X X   X X X X X   X X X X X   X X X X X X X X   X X X X X   X X X X X       36
TAR     X X X X   X X   .   X X   X     X X     X X   X   X X X X X   X X     X X X X   X   X X X       29

PS      X X X X   X X X X   .                                                                            8
MP4     X X X X   X X X X     .                                                                          8

AR      X X X X   X X X X         .                                                                      8
BMP     X X X X   X X X             .                                                                    7
BZ2     X X X X   X X X               .                                                                  7
CAB     X X X X   X X X X               .                                                                8
CPIO    X X X X   X X X X                 .                                                              8
EBML    X X X X   X X                       .                                                            6
ELF     X X X X   X X X                       .                                                          7
FLV     X X X X   X X X X                       .                                                        8
Flac    X X X X   X X X X                         .                                                      8
GIF     X X X X   X X X                             .                                                    7
GZ      X X X X   X X X X                             .                                                  8
ICC     X X X X   X X                                   .                                                6
ICO     X X X X   X X X X                                 .                                              8
ID3v2   X X X X   X X X X                                   .                                            8
ILDA    X X X X   X X X X                                     .                                          8
JP2     X X X X   X X X X                                       .                                        8
JPG     X X X X   X X X X                                         .                                      8
NES     X X X X   X X X                                             .                                    7
OGG     X X X X   X X X X                                             .                                  8
PSD     X X X X   X X X X                                               .                                8
LNK     X X X X   X X                                                     .                              6
PE      X X X X   X X X                                                     .                            7
PNG     X X X X   X X X X                                                     .                          8
RIFF    X X X X   X X X X                                                       .                        8
RTF     X X X X   X X X X                                                         .                      8
TIFF    X X X X   X X X X                                                           .                    8

BPG     X X X X   X X X X                                                               .                8
Java    X X X X   X X X                                                                   .              7
PCAP    X X X X   X X X X                                                                   .            8
PCAPN   X X X X   X X X X                                                                     .          8
WASM    X X X X   X X X X                                                                       .        8

ID3v1                                                                                               .    0
XZ                                                                                                    .  0

Formats combinations: 278
```

Notes that some formats are containers and apply to several file types.


# Notes


## File formats

Remarks and recommendations to design file formats

- Enforcing a magic at offset zero should be standard.
- Starting at offset zero and not enforcing a magic at zero is still exploitable (PS, MP4).
- Starting at any offset makes polyglots trivial.
- Enforcing a footer (like `XZ`, `ID3v1`) is a great way to check if a file isn't truncated,
and prevents 'naturally' appended data.
- Most formats have a way to store parasite data, except very simple ones.
- Don't use a standard container in a non standard way.
Use a different magic if you're only going to use similar structures to a limited extend.


## Polyglots detection

Since these polyglots contain the magic signatures of both formats,
`file` may be able to detect them with the `--keep-going` arguments.
(it does not *validate* the formats, but at least gives you some information).

```
$ file --keep-going --raw "C(66)-PNG-DICOM.7e22f58e.dcm.png"
C(66)-PNG-DICOM.7e22f58e.dcm.png: PNG image data, 13 x 7, 1-bit colormap, non-interlaced
- DICOM medical imaging data
- data
```

Commit message:

Added install instructions and blank.pdf (dummy.pdf from https://github.com/corkami/collisions/tree/master/scripts)

README.md, after:

# Mitra

A tool to generate binary polyglots
(files that are valid with several file formats).

Loosely named after [Μιθραδάτης](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mithridates_VI_of_Pontus),
a famous polyglot.
Pronounced `mɪtrə`.

[What's new](NEWS.md).

## Install

Install MuPDF (you need mutool on the command line to create normalized PDFs)


## How to use

`mitra.py file1.png file2.dcm` gives you a working PNG/DICOM polyglot.

Check Corkami [mini](https://github.com/corkami/pocs/tree/master/mini)
or [tiny](https://github.com/corkami/pocs/tree/master/tiny) PoCs for input files.
and the formats [repository](https://github.com/corkami/formats/tree/WIP) for some extra technical info.


# Features

It tries different layouts:
Stacks (appended data), Cavities (blank space), Parasites (comments), Zippers (mutual comments).

It returns the offsets where the payloads 'switch sizes' for multi-ciphertexts.

Ex: `Z(80-162-286)-DICOM^TIFF.be3b767b.dcm.tif` is a DICOM/TIFF zipper
where the payloads switch side at offsets `0x80`, `0x162` and `0x286`.

The `-s` option extracts the 2 payloads separately, mixed with pseudo-random bytes
(it doesn't fix checksums afterwards).

Mitra doesn't generate crypto-polyglots or any polyglots with overlapping bytes,
but it can definitely help to craft them.


# Goals


## Exploration

The goal of this project was to explore polyglots layouts,
formats abuses, and understand which format features enables which kind of abuse.

For example, in a chunk-based format, just find where to `cut` the file,
then `wrap` foreign data in a new chunk and insert the chunk.
So you just need to teach Mitra how to `identify` the type,
where to `cut`, and how to `wrap`.


## Demonstration

You can prevent a software launch if you find a security risk,
but a bad format design is not considered a risk in itself:
it's just the parser's fault, not the designer's !

So if you review a bad file format,
then maybe with Mitra you can quickly generate polyglots with many other formats
and demonstrate the risks.


# Status

```
                          Delayed               Magic at offset zero,                 No appended
      Any offset  Cavities start               tolerated appended data                    data    Footer

        Z 7 A R   P I D T   P M   A B B C C E E F F G G I I I I J J N O P L P P R R T   B J P P W   I X
        i Z r A   D S C A   S P   R M Z A P B L L l I Z C C D L P P E G S N E N I T I   P a C C A   D Z
        p   j R   F O M R     4     P 2 B I M F V a F   C O 3 D 2 G S G D K   G F F F   G v A A S   3
                                          O L     c         v A                 F   F     a P P M   v
                                                            2                                 N     1

Zip     . X X X   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
7Z      X . X X   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
Arj     X X . X   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
RAR     X X X .   X X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40

PDF     X X X X   . X X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
ISO     X X X X   X . X X   X X   X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X X X       40
DCM     X X X X   X X .     X X   X X X X X   X X X X X   X X X X X X X X   X X X X X   X X X X X       36
TAR     X X X X   X X   .   X X   X     X X     X X   X   X X X X X   X X     X X X X   X   X X X       29

PS      X X X X   X X X X   .                                                                            8
MP4     X X X X   X X X X     .                                                                          8

AR      X X X X   X X X X         .                                                                      8
BMP     X X X X   X X X             .                                                                    7
BZ2     X X X X   X X X               .                                                                  7
CAB     X X X X   X X X X               .                                                                8
CPIO    X X X X   X X X X                 .                                                              8
EBML    X X X X   X X                       .                                                            6
ELF     X X X X   X X X                       .                                                          7
FLV     X X X X   X X X X                       .                                                        8
Flac    X X X X   X X X X                         .                                                      8
GIF     X X X X   X X X                             .                                                    7
GZ      X X X X   X X X X                             .                                                  8
ICC     X X X X   X X                                   .                                                6
ICO     X X X X   X X X X                                 .                                              8
ID3v2   X X X X   X X X X                                   .                                            8
ILDA    X X X X   X X X X                                     .                                          8
JP2     X X X X   X X X X                                       .                                        8
JPG     X X X X   X X X X                                         .                                      8
NES     X X X X   X X X                                             .                                    7
OGG     X X X X   X X X X                                             .                                  8
PSD     X X X X   X X X X                                               .                                8
LNK     X X X X   X X                                                     .                              6
PE      X X X X   X X X                                                     .                            7
PNG     X X X X   X X X X                                                     .                          8
RIFF    X X X X   X X X X                                                       .                        8
RTF     X X X X   X X X X                                                         .                      8
TIFF    X X X X   X X X X                                                           .                    8

BPG     X X X X   X X X X                                                               .                8
Java    X X X X   X X X                                                                   .              7
PCAP    X X X X   X X X X                                                                   .            8
PCAPN   X X X X   X X X X                                                                     .          8
WASM    X X X X   X X X X                                                                       .        8

ID3v1                                                                                               .    0
XZ                                                                                                    .  0

Formats combinations: 278
```

Notes that some formats are containers and apply to several file types.


# Notes


## File formats

Remarks and recommendations to design file formats

- Enforcing a magic at offset zero should be standard.
- Starting at offset zero and not enforcing a magic at zero is still exploitable (PS, MP4).
- Starting at any offset makes polyglots trivial.
- Enforcing a footer (like `XZ`, `ID3v1`) is a great way to check if a file isn't truncated,
and prevents 'naturally' appended data.
- Most formats have a way to store parasite data, except very simple ones.
- Don't use a standard container in a non standard way.
Use a different magic if you're only going to use similar structures to a limited extend.


## Polyglots detection

Since these polyglots contain the magic signatures of both formats,
`file` may be able to detect them with the `--keep-going` arguments.
(it does not *validate* the formats, but at least gives you some information).

```
$ file --keep-going --raw "C(66)-PNG-DICOM.7e22f58e.dcm.png"
C(66)-PNG-DICOM.7e22f58e.dcm.png: PNG image data, 13 x 7, 1-bit colormap, non-interlaced
- DICOM medical imaging data
- data
```
